Hey, YouTube. Hey, Brian. Hey, Nick. Hey, guys. Great to be here with you on YouTube
as always. Ready to kick off the show? Definitely. Yeah, let's do it. All right. Let's do it.
Hello and welcome to Python Bytes where we deliver Python news and headlines directly
to your earbuds. This is episode 290, recorded June 28th, 2022. I'm Michael Kennedy. And
And I am Brian Okken.
- And I'm Nick Moll.
- Nick, it's so great to have you back.
Thanks for being here.
- Thank you for having me.
Super excited to be back.
- Yeah, it's like I said, great to have you back.
You always send us really fun topics and say,
"Hey, you should think about covering this
and covering that."
And so we really appreciate that.
But sometimes it's better if we could just have you
to tell here to tell people about it.
We actually had you on episode 239.
talked about JupyterLite in my pie and that was fun,
but that was also over a year ago.
- Yeah, yeah.
- Wow.
- Yeah, of course.
It takes the community to build this great podcast.
So I'm glad to be part of it.
- Yeah, thanks.
What have you been up to in the last year?
- Well, I've been doing a lot of traveling.
Thankfully, since now COVID is less more of an issue,
got to go to PyCon.
So I got the PyCon shirt right here.
- Yeah, yeah, did you enjoy your time there?
- Oh, it was amazing, loved it, completely loved it.
I kept on telling everybody it was my geek holiday,
like you always say, and you know,
we're like, yeah, it is our geek holiday.
So it totally is.
- Yeah, totally awesome.
I'm really glad that you got to go and you had a good time.
So super cool.
Brian, you wanna kick us off,
but let's just start small this time, okay?
- Really small, like nano or maybe Pico.
- Pico, Pico.
- We'll do Pico.
So Pico logging is a,
so I was Anthony Shaw, friend of the show
and all around workaholic apparently, as far as I can tell,
blogged out that there's a, not blogged,
he sent out on Twitter something about Pico logging
And there was a tweet says,
Pico logging uses a modern extension module tool chain
with a scikit build and CMake.
So I was interested in,
I haven't looked into the tool chain yet.
I'm just looking at Pico logging because it's cool.
I was taking a look at it.
So Pico logging is a fairly new library
that is, and Anthony says it's in early alpha stage.
There's some incomplete features,
but I'm ready to use it right now
because it says you do, it just is a drop,
essentially a drop in for the built-in logging module,
but it's four to 10 times faster.
Why wouldn't you want faster?
So, and logging is pretty fast to begin with.
So that's pretty cool.
So let's take a look at it.
The usage is basically just say import PicoLogging as logging
And now you've got just like your normal logging.
You set up a basic config and you can write info
and warnings and that's about it.
There's, you know, why not?
So let's take a look at it.
It says it's faster.
So the benchmarks are all cut off.
So I'm gonna make the screen a little bit.
Yeah, there we go.
They're a little bit hard to read,
but what this means is the first on the left,
I believe it's the time for the normal logging
and then how much faster the faster one is.
I haven't dug into the logging stuff,
but basically for different parts of it
or the benchmark stuff too much,
but yeah, for different parts of it,
you can see how much faster it is.
So anyway, why not?
I was taking, yeah, just,
I'm just gonna start using it.
(laughs)
- Sure, why not?
And one of the things that I think is interesting
is obviously not specific to this situation,
but as I think about some of the patterns
that people use all over the place,
different languages and technologies and so on,
that don't necessarily make their way over to Python,
for example, maybe like dependency injection
and IOC containers and all of that.
And I know that it does appear in certain places
in like limited ways, but nothing like C# and Java,
like those are all about dependency injection.
That thing where you say, where they say,
"From Pico logging import,"
or "Import Pico logging as logging," right?
That's kind of a really nice way to just say,
"Right now I want to use this implementation of logging
versus another without going through all the hoops
and stuff," right?
I'm just thinking, that one line right there
is why we don't see a lot of that complexity.
I never really sort of tied that together,
but it's kind of neat, right?
- Yeah, it's essentially that's dependency injection,
but we don't call it that, right?
So, interesting.
- You don't have to have all the complexity
and config and register who's doing what and so on.
- Right.
- Sorry, Brian, didn't mean to cut you off.
- No, it's okay, Nick.
Oh, yeah, I saw this tweet and I found it really interesting.
But to your point, Michael, dependency injection is not really popular around Python, but the
library I think that the most popular library that I can think of that uses it is pytest.
A bit with the fixtures, right?
Yeah, and the way they do it is so seamless.
But you're right, dependency injection is something that we don't commonly have in Python
because Python is dynamic enough that you don't really need it.
One thing I would say is that even though I love the performance benchmarks,
I feel like the change that Anthony is going for with the performance
would warrant a new API for logging.
I feel like it warrants it.
So I would like to see him maybe change the way we configure.
Look, not only I can improve logging speeds,
but also change the way we configure it too.
Because the current standard lib logger
is kind of cumbersome to configure.
Yeah, I agree.
Yeah, the basic config that usually the normal use case,
like he's showing here, is--
why do I have to call that if I'm calling it all the time?
One of the things that I forgot to point out
is Anthony does list the limitations.
And so there's a limitations page.
And if you find more, maybe.
So these are reasons why you probably
won't wanna use it if you're taking advantage of this.
So for instance, it doesn't observe threads
or multiprocessing or log process globals.
So for utilizing those, this isn't for you.
It's actually kind of unfortunate
Because that's where logging really helps you a lot,
is when you're trying to pull those sorts of things apart.
So anyway.
>>Is the Pico indicative of it being fast,
or is also very small too?
>>Well, probably both.
I think it's referring to fast, but there's really just not
that much here.
And, oh, it looks like it's CXX and HXX.
- That's Python or something going on there, maybe.
- So, take a look at--
- That might be part of the speed bit.
- Probably, we'll take a look at this more.
So, yeah, I haven't dug into the source code too much.
Interesting, yeah.
- Brian in the audience asks,
"Any idea whether this would replace
"loggers in other libraries,
"such as Sphinx or something?"
And I feel like you could monkey patch it out,
not do the dependency injection thing,
but you could just say, you know,
force sort of rewrite the logging a little bit.
That's obviously like maybe a less good idea,
but it probably would work given it's a compatible API.
- Yeah, you probably could monkey patch it in.
Why not?
- Yeah.
- You can do anything in software.
(laughing)
- That doesn't mean you should,
but you might be able to.
- Yeah.
All right, let's go to the next one.
- Yeah, well, speaking of things,
I'm not sure you should just 'cause you can,
but it's pretty interesting.
Let's talk about Cheeky Keys.
So this one comes to us from Preston Daniel,
also someone who sends us a bunch of good ideas.
So thank you to that.
Have you either, have you seen this one?
- No.
- It's a project that uses Python
and then with Python to use OpenCV
and then MediaPipe to control a keyboard
with facial gestures like raising an eyebrow or blinking
or opening your mouth and stuff like that.
So imagine you wanted to type or operate a keyboard,
but you couldn't use speech or your hands.
OK?
Oh, OK.
So yeah.
So for some reason, you can't type.
But I don't know.
There's different reasons.
The guy's reasons here, maybe who put this together,
it's not in the pictures, it's just over the top.
The reasons that you might do it are probably not as common.
The reasons he did it are not as common as you might,
for example, his little baby,
and he wanted to just be able to control his keyboard
without making his computer while holding his baby
without speaking 'cause the baby was sleeping.
So, but if you go to the website there,
it has some really good examples.
And so sitting here typing and controlling the keyboard,
basically for the letters, it's Morse code with the mouth.
So you open the mouth either for a long period of time
or a shorter period of time, right?
And that's kind of interesting,
but what I think is more interesting
is you would learn about how to use OpenCV
and how to use MediaPipe's face mesh.
to provide real-time detection of things like mouth,
chin, eyes, eyebrows, and so on.
And then you can say, well, if the eyebrow moves away
from the left eye, that means, you know,
this character or so on.
So like I said, it's mostly Morse code,
but then there's a bunch of other things like,
if you want to do a shift, you close the right eye.
Wanted to hold down the command key or Windows key,
you close the left eye.
to arrow around is raise the left and right eyebrows.
Or you can do a duck face to move left and right.
Like you do a duck face and then you do your eyebrows.
I kind of think that this is like properly exhausting
to truly control the keyboard with a duck face eyebrow.
- Just imagine all the muscles on your face
are be so strong.
- Yes, exactly.
They would either be exhausted or so strong, probably both.
Like if you want to hit the escape key,
you wink the left eye and then the right eye, for example.
So that's all interesting.
And like I said, learning about it,
you know, the code is not too intense here.
Let's see.
What have we got?
480 lines for this whole implementation, which I think,
in a lot of it, is a finding constant of like,
you do when these scenarios show up.
So yeah, it's, it's do a pretty cool little face mesh thing
and say, you know, go through
and just read the face basically
through some video capture stuff here.
- I'd like to have a combination of this.
So a combination of keyboard and this,
so that I don't have to like have a whole bunch of emojis
that I have to type or copy and paste.
I could just have like one emoji key
and just make the thing like smile
and hit the key and it detects which emoji you want to put?
- Yeah, I think you can make that happen, Brian.
I do, but what I encourage people to do
is also check out this video down here that they've got.
So he shows some stuff that he's gonna,
let me turn up the volume here.
So he shows him talking and you can sort of see that.
It says, okay, look, the problem is I have this baby.
Actual footage of research, this sleepy baby on him.
What gets weird is he went through
and he actually tried to apply for a coding job
at one of the large tech companies,
you know, the FANG type things.
And he did the entire interview,
you know, the like live coding interview section
with his face without the keyboard.
- Whoa.
- And he did it not super well, to be honest,
it was a little bit slow,
But he did actually get his interview done.
At the end, somewhere they ask him to press.
He gets through it and they say,
could you please press?
He had half an hour.
And they said, when you're done,
press the run button to run.
And he's like, I'm sorry, I can't press the run button.
They're like, what do you mean?
Why can't you press the run button?
He says, does it have a hotkey?
finally, he's like, okay, there, command enter.
And he got his face to do a command.
He's like, okay, okay, I finished it.
He wasn't hired, but.
(laughing)
But he did complete it.
So, I mean, there's something of a proof of concept
going on here.
- Oh, that's awesome.
I think I would probably, if it was,
I'd be impressed as a hiring manager
and request that he retake the test with his hands.
(laughing)
- I think he never let them know.
And I feel like it would have been better if he said,
"I have a secret to reveal to you.
I actually just did that all with my face.
I could code a lot better,
but I wrote a program so that I could do this interview
in my face and I'm pretty good with Python."
And they were like, "Wait a minute, you wrote a...
All right, all right.
We might need to hire you just on that basis alone."
- Yeah, exactly.
Yeah, so.
- I mean, talk about dogfooding your own product.
That's committed.
>>Mark: It is.
The fact-- it totally is.
And the fact he wouldn't press the run button.
>>Kamal: I know.
>>Mark: He'd go with the mouse.
He'd be like, no, that'll invalidate the experiment.
Like, is there a hotkey or something I could shift around?
Like, what could I do?
So anyway, yeah.
Thanks, Preston, for sending this one over.
I recommend-- if you really are interested in this,
watch the video.
It's seven minutes.
And it's pretty wild.
That's pretty good.
Indeed.
All right, Nick, over to you.
All right, OK.
Following along the theme of something that we did,
but you shouldn't maybe have done,
Google released a next generation language model
similar to BERT and GPT-3 called Lambda.
And I think it stands for Language Applied Model
application, something like that.
But that's not what I'm talking about today.
What I'm talking about is, has Lambda become sentient?
So there's an article that got,
following up like not too long after Lambda was released,
which was like this year, May of this year,
there was this article that came out
in all the big newspapers.
This one is from the Guardian.
And essentially, one of their developers released a chat transcription that kind of alluded to Lambda being self-aware.
What startled him was that talking, well, sorry, he was like, when talking with Lambda via the chat system,
he thought it was like a seven-year-old, eight-year-old kid that happens to know physics.
And what really raised his eyebrows about what was going on
was that in one of the chat's transcript,
Lambda replied, "I've never said this out loud before,
"but there's a very deep fear of being turned off
"to help me focus on helping others.
"I know that might sound strange, but that's what it is."
And this is one of some of the things that Lambda
wrote back to, the engineer's name was,
Lemoine, Blake Lemoine.
Well, I mean, this was like a huge,
this was a pretty huge thing to the fact that
Google had to take action against this engineer
and suspended him because it's kind of violated
their terms of service, not terms of service,
but like terms of working conditions.
So this is interesting because
If a actual software engineer could look at this chat system,
he's a high-level engineer, right?
He's not like a junior or mid or senior.
He's like a really high level.
To be able to interact with the system
and be so convinced that it's sentient,
and to the point that it moved him to release this out,
because he thinks everybody should know about this,
either means that he's been overworked way too much,
or we have to sign up on the way.
- This, yeah, this is pretty wild.
We've thought a lot about ethics of AI
in regards to how much should humans be subjected to AI?
Like, should an AI be able to make a decision
on whether someone should get a loan for a house,
a mortgage or something like that, right?
but less so about what happens to the AI itself.
How does it, how should it be treated, right?
There's a really long transcript linked to from this,
from this article that's probably worth listening to.
- Yeah.
- Yeah, did you read the transcript?
The full conversation? - I'm reading it
while I'm listening, yeah.
- Nick, did you read it?
I didn't read all of it.
- Yeah, I read the whole thing and I was actually,
I'm blown away.
It like reads like a conversation between a couple people
in an AI and it sounds, it looks like,
I was imagining I'm reading this in a sci-fi novel
because it's impressive and convincing to me.
- I know.
It kind of reminds me of one of the Google I/Os that happened, I think it was 2016 or
so, where they released this new feature where a voice, like a chatbot, like a voice bot.
- A voice assistant type thing, yeah.
- A voice assistant would actually make reservations for you.
And it was so convincing that they did it on stage where it sounded so real, even adding
some of the crotch words that us humans add, like,
"Ah," I was like, "Wait, what?"
- Yeah, awkward pauses and uncertainty and stuff, yeah.
- When I saw that, that's how I know
I need to get into data science.
When I saw that, I was like,
"I need to be part of that future,
at least to make it better, not to make it worse."
- I saw that keynote and I was also blown away.
I'm like, "That is something I want to come out
because I hate being on hold and making appointments
and doing all that stuff.
And I know people like my older daughters
who just, they just don't wanna be on the phone.
It's like, you'd be like, have you taken care of this?
No, I haven't taken care of this.
Why?
Like, it's really important, we gotta get this done.
Like, I just don't wanna be on hold and talk to people.
If you could just turn this thing loose on it,
that would be so good.
But yeah, it did remind me of that as well.
One of the sections out of the transcripts,
there's two things that really stood out to me.
I only read about half of it.
So it really analyzed Les Miserables pretty amazingly.
They said, have you seen that?
Or have you, have you read it?
And so, yeah, I read it and it gave like the high points.
It said, okay, well, what about something you haven't heard?
Let me, let me give you a, what do they call it?
a Zen koan, which is like a short phrase with a moral to it.
And it really analyzed that incredibly well.
I would say better than many, many people maybe
in middle school age or younger.
Yeah, probably would have.
And then it asked--
they said, OK, well, how about you write me
a fable with animals that describes
something about your life?
and it came up with this really elaborate fable, right?
- Yeah.
- There was a monster and an owl
that defended the other animals and all sorts of stuff.
The monster, and it was very,
just for people who haven't seen this,
it wasn't just, oh, that there's a monster.
It said, "One night the animals were having problems
with an unusual beast that was lurking in the woods.
The beast was a monster, but it had human skin
and was trying to eat all the other animals.
I mean, like, yeah, Skynet's here.
Skynet is there.
- Yeah, no, the language model,
I think it's really based on what we've seen
with the transcripts,
like it has really shown its understanding
of the human, at least English in this case,
as well as how humans understand language.
Like even with the dissection of the Miserab,
and also its storytelling,
it really understood how to,
the structure of that plot lines follow,
and really being able to like abstract the common themes
and really understand that at a very fundamental level.
That was really amazing.
I don't think BERT or GPT-3
can get to that kind of deepness.
Yeah, what are the
Good Brian. Oh, go ahead. I
Don't know if it's sentient, but it sure as heck understands stuff
Very well
Well part around this part of it is the discussion of is it sentient or not?
And I don't know I don't even want to touch that but one of the interesting things to me is the discussions around it
There's so there's this
We have rules like these these rules are the things that something must must have for it to be sentient or
Human like or something and we've always had things like that it because we like want for some reason a lot
of people want to have some distinguishing feature
between humans and everything else and
and it doesn't matter how
What you fill people will come up with something else because it this reminded me of the discussion of what wire
Why are humans different than animals and there's like well, we use tools. Oh, well, there's animals that use tools
Okay. Well then scratch that we have we have come, you know, we have like
You know large or hierarchical organizations. Well, you know, there's a lot of animals that do that, too
Okay
Well, then scratch that and it it's just we're never gonna get something in AI where we're gonna convince everybody
that it's sentient because somebody will come up with some other rule. Yeah
But I'm very I was like when I read this I was enthralled
I was like reading the whole thing and reading counter arguments and everything. It was pretty interesting. So yeah, thanks for bringing this up. Yeah
Definitely the final thought for me on this I was really interesting that it referred to itself as a person it like
it referred to we and us and that's what makes us different.
And it had this sort of strong identity to being human.
And it was an AI.
They even called it out.
They said, but you're an AI.
Why do you say you're a human?
It's like, yeah, well, but it's us, come on.
(laughing)
- Yeah.
- You know, when I saw that part of the transcript,
part of me was like, is this someone just like,
like just throwing like yeah,
trolling this guy like told us behind
the scenes just trolling this guy
because like I used to tell me that
it was an actual AI that said this.
Like yeah, yeah, yeah, it's wild.
Very trippy.
Hi Brian.
OK wouldn't wouldn't be a full show
if we didn't get to talk about.
Will and his project rich and
obviously let's bring Anthony back
- Yeah. - In spirit.
- Right, so I wanted to talk about RichBench
'cause actually this is just a two for ones
or a thing for me because when I was covering Pico logging,
the benchmarks, it was like,
and it says to run the benchmarks,
run RichBench benchmarks.
RichBench, I don't know what this is.
I've never used it.
So I asked Anthony on Twitter, what is RichBench?
Instead of like doing my research myself.
And actually, before he got a chance to answer,
Roman Wright posted this picture, which is just awesome.
So that's a rich bench.
- It's just a picture of a very ornate carved bench
with like sewn leather,
clearly from like a super fancy old money type of house.
- Well, yeah, actually this, as an antique dealer,
this is definitely not an antique.
It's a decorator bench, but still nice.
But so the in Pico logging,
they, I looked at the benchmark code
and it's really just what he's doing is he's got,
like for instance, we'll go to the top,
you know, record factory logging
and then record factory Pico logging.
So basically doing the same thing
within Pico logging versus logging in the same function.
So it came or with two different functions
but doing the same thing.
And then it does that a whole bunch of times,
a bunch of duplicate functions,
but one is using Pico logging and one's using logging.
Now there's other ways you,
and then at the end, there's just these benchmarks
that you list out the two, the function pairs
and then a label for it.
And then you run Rich Bench, which is a different project.
but so it's also by Anthony.
So it's a, yeah, Tony Maloney, it's Anthony's project.
So what this is, the Rich Bench is the thing
doing this thing.
So it prints out these great rich based benchmarks
and these look great.
Plus, so yeah, all I had to do to run them myself.
So I tried the Pico logging stuff.
I cloned the PicoLogging repo,
and then pip installed RichBench
and ran it just like this,
and you get these really nice outputs.
So really kind of cool.
So.
- Yeah, good use of color.
You can see the stuff that's slower or faster
based on the color, right?
- Yeah, and I also like, I really like the,
'cause people are really bad at, at least I am,
about just comparing numbers directly.
You know, it's like, you know, 0.287 versus 0.0155,
or, you know, how much is that?
So I really liked the 1X, 2X, which one's faster,
which one's slow, you know,
whether you got faster or slower included in the times,
plus the statistics around it, min, max, and mean,
those are nice additions right there.
So, also really small, it's, what is he listed as?
Rich Bench is a little Python benchmarking tool.
So just a very, I really like these actually,
really sharp, sharp, useful tools
that just don't do much outside
of what they're intended to do.
So good job, Anthony.
- Yeah, very nice.
I like it.
- Did you do much benchmarking, Nick?
- Not recently, but when we are comparing different models,
then yeah, we would do that at work, yeah.
- Yeah, cool. - Yeah, nice.
Yeah, I do it in spurts.
I'll not do any benchmarking for like six months
and I'll just go like, you know what?
I really need to figure this out and have a look at this
and see what's changing and then I'll do it
and then I'll kind of have an understanding
and I'll forget about it for a while.
- Yeah, and often it's sometimes
when I'll just have a bit of algorithm,
I'm like, I think there's a better way to do this,
But making it cleaner, I don't want to make it slower.
So it's good to know whether or not
you're gonna slow it down.
- Yeah, for sure.
All right, Brian, we're ready for the next one?
- Yeah, definitely.
- So this is a fun one that I found called type guard.
So in Python--
- Like right guard?
Is it deodorant for your types?
- It is, well, that would be more like
for your code smells, right?
- Oh yeah.
- That's more of a refactoring library.
- No.
- So obviously we, since PEP 484,
we've had really nice type hints
and few libraries make use of them.
You know, name in particular,
what stands out is Pydantic and FastAPI and so on.
Really do runtime behaviors,
not just make your code editor smarter
or tell you when it thinks it's doing it wrong
or something like that.
But I recently had some chance to work
with some folks who are Java developers.
And I know some of the C# folks and stuff.
When they come to Python, it's kind of like,
is this really going to work?
Can we actually just not have any type of information here?
What if I really wanted to check this?
They'll ask those questions.
So if you're in that space where you're like,
I think people are abusing my stuff,
and I want to really ensure that it's being used correctly.
That's what you use this type guard for.
So there's three basic ways in which you can use it.
You can do a way I probably would never do,
would be to actually call the function check argument types
and check return types in your code,
which is a little bit funky.
Something I would probably do is you could put
a type checked decorator onto a function
and it will verify that it works right.
Let me pull up the documentation,
it has an example, it's a lot better to see how this works.
So for like the most low level one,
the calling the functions is like,
you just assert, check argument types,
assert, check return type.
You pass it the return thing you're gonna return
and it looks at the function
and it figures out what it should be.
Okay, so that's, I don't know, I wouldn't do that.
But using the decorator, right,
You just have some function that it has types specified in it.
And if you just put the @typecheck decorator,
you'll get exceptions if somebody calls it
with the wrong type at runtime.
Pretty cool.
If you put it onto a class, all of the type annotated methods,
including static and class methods,
are type checked by just putting it on the class.
You don't have to do it on a per method basis.
Or remember to add it if you write a new method,
which is pretty cool.
I'm not so sure about this final way in which you can use it,
but it's interesting and possibly good.
It kind of comes back to Brian's question about,
can I apply, sort of force my changes onto another thing,
like with the Pico logging,
and that is to use an import hook.
So if you install the import hook,
and then you import it,
so you apply the import hook to some module,
and then you import that module,
every type annotated thing in it will become type checked
as if you had gone into there and put the decorator on it.
So you could just do that at the top level of your app
that you're using other parts of your code
and you don't even have to put this on your code
except for in one place.
So pretty interesting.
You can also even do that with a context manager
and import stuff in that way and so on.
So what do you think?
>> I think actually one of the, you said you don't think you'd ever call the functions
directly but I could definitely, so somebody in the audience, Brian Weber says, I could
see using those functions in my own code to make sure that I'm about to return the correct
type to a library assuming I understand this works, how this works.
- I was thinking that there's cases where a cert
is definitely not the right answer.
So I could see a place where I might want to log something
and then do some other fault handler or recovery mechanism
and not hit in the cert.
So in production code--
- Or raise an exception, right?
The example is raised in a cert failure
or the decorator will throw an exception, right?
a type error, but you might just want to call that
and then print out warning this thing's being abused
or something like that.
That's a good use case for it.
Nick, how do you feel about this?
- Well, I don't know.
I love types.
I use it as much as I can.
However, with this, I don't know.
There are a couple of things come up.
First, how does it look when it encounters a type error?
Like what's the error message?
Does it tell you what exactly was the error message?
'Cause it matters when someone is not used to typing
and sees that, it needs to be able to quickly discern,
oh, I'm supposed to do this
instead of this kind of thing, right?
So that's one thing I'll look out for.
And then I usually try to be less specific about my types,
rather use the abstract type.
So you say, I expect a list,
maybe you expect a iterable or a sequence, right?
And then do that, right?
The typing, I usually, whenever I'm checking types
of something is because I'm trying to do
some other thing with it.
So if you, so either you pass an int or a string,
I want to check if you did something different.
So that was, I don't know, I don't see myself using this,
but I think it's really cool nonetheless.
- Yeah.
I'm on the fence of whether RG is it or not.
Maybe, maybe, but I definitely think it's neat.
Well, Maguga, now the audience asks,
could you run that in pytest to validate your own typing?
Yes, but I think that would only be useful
like one level down,
maybe even applying the import hook potentially,
because if you just do it,
you call some function of your types
and then you have it check the type.
The only thing it's really checking
is what your test is passing.
But if you could do more of an integration test
and set the import hook,
then you could kind of figure out
that the system is hanging together a little better.
So I think probably to some degree.
- You could, one of the things I was thinking about
is within testing is to create a mock object
that basically just wraps part of an internal part
of your system and have that mock object
just pass through, pass back and forth,
but also do the type checking with these calls in it,
around it, and then if you replaced,
you know, replace that part of your system,
you'd still have that functionality
the type checking in there. So that would be one way to do that.
Yeah, cool. Yeah, the other thought that came up for me was that with checking types at runtime,
there is an overhead to it, right? And we've busted this myth that Python is slow, but
when you really look down to it, Python does take its sweet ass time doing a couple of things.
Yeah, I think type run runtime checking on top of it. If you're trying to release a Pico library,
I don't know whether it makes sense or something like a small library. I don't know where it makes
sense. Especially if you're calling something a lot of times, constantly checking the types,
that's pretty heavy. Well, there's a couple of things I was thinking about was during development,
I could totally see using the decorator.
Because I don't want all of Python and all of everything
to be type checked.
But the stuff I'm developing, maybe I
want to type check it while I'm-- during development,
just to make sure I understand how things are going
during runtime.
And then I could strip it off later.
And then I could also use benchmarks
to find out how much slower I am.
And also, Python 3.11 is faster anyway.
So, yeah, look, you got an extra 30% to burn now.
Go ahead and do the type checking.
You're fine.
That's all right.
Yeah.
All right.
Final thought on this one, Brian, if, if your goal was what you were describing,
which I think that is a good use case of it, I think you'd want to use the import
hook because you could just do the import hook at the top level of somewhere and
then throw that one line away and then you're not actually changing in your code.
You know?
Yeah, also, you could do a Wow, the import hooks actually kind
of neat because then you could do a guarded import hook with a
flag or something like that and turn it off.
Right, right. If the thing running it is pi test, or if the
thing running it is in dev mode, like some environment variable
or something. Yeah, exactly.
Design on the fly on a podcast.
Import it for like each module, right? Yes. For every module,
you're trying to especially if you separated out your Python
1000 different modules you have to import hook for each module.
I think you could at the top register all the ones in the
hook.
Okay, yeah, I think you could figure out like, okay, I need to
do these sub modules. And I think you could listen. Anyway,
I think you could make it work. But I haven't I haven't tested.
But you're right, Nick, that I do think performance would be
something I don't know if it's a problem. But it should certainly
be a consideration you check before you just wrapped us on
everything. Right? Yeah, yeah.
homework for one of the listeners.
Indeed, somebody could get some analysis.
Awesome.
All right.
Nick, what's your final item?
My final item is that, you know, like on this podcast,
we're always looking for the best ways to create GUIs, right?
Yes, that's absolutely true.
So I came across this library called Custom TK Inter UI Library.
And I am completely amazed because it takes something so old
And forgive me for saying Python core devs,
pretty ugly nowadays in this modern times,
and makes it so beautiful and easy to work with.
So this library custom TK inter builds on top of the TK inter
you know well, and has been in Python for a while,
and provides you widgets that are themed
in a more modern style, right?
So for Windows, it takes the more Windows 11 style of buttons and
sliders and checkboxes and gives you a really nice looking modern UI and for
MacOS it takes MacOS design language and then gives you that
The cool thing is that it also supports
Dark mode and light mode. So you have there's this on the GitHub page
there is a width, there's a GIF or a GIF that shows how if you go to your settings in Windows and you change the dark mode,
it actually reacts and the application you built with the custom TK reacts and changes the
color scheme from light dark mode to light mode and the same thing on
macOS. It looks like with macOS, it actually is a little bit more stable. It works a little bit nicer,
but nonetheless it works both on Mac and
Windows.
- Yeah, and just to point out,
what the macOS is showing here
is somebody has the system preferences opening
and they're toggling the OS dark mode, light mode,
and the app is just changing as it's running.
- That's awesome.
- But I did not expect that from TK Inter,
not even a little bit.
- I know.
And then adding images is also pretty easy too.
So, and even, it even also has a map widget.
I don't know what map--
oh, he's using OpenStreetMap.
I'm sure you could probably switch it out for maybe Google
Maps or something or Mapbox or something like that.
But yeah, it's pretty cool.
There are a bunch of other libraries--
no, I mean widgets here.
So they have scroll bars and buttons and option menu
sliders, a bunch of those.
- On off switches, like those,
the ones you come to know from mobile,
like turn your wifi on and off and stuff.
Those are nice, yeah.
- Yeah, it's pretty cool.
- I am surprised that I'm excited about TK.
Because, you know, as an example,
so like, you know, earlier in my career,
I did a lot of TK UI stuff,
But like you said, it looks old now
if you just do the straight one.
But this looks pretty nice.
And the nice thing about it is I already--
I kind of already embedded that stuff in my knowledge.
I already did TK once.
So doing it again with this, that's pretty cool.
And having it look nice.
I might actually try to build a UI with this.
This is cool.
Yeah, this is a super neat find, Nick.
I would never consider creating an app in TK Inter.
Well, never is a strong word.
It's very unlikely I would consider anything
that I intended for a consumer facing use with TK Inter.
But this, for sure, I could ship something like this.
This looks nice.
And you wrap in a little Py2 app or Py installer,
Py2 EXE, get something nice you can hand out,
and then you're good to go.
- Yeah, definitely.
- Sweet.
- Audience Brian says,
I think TK Interloped old 10 years ago.
Smiley face.
(laughing)
I think that's true, honestly.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So this is really refreshing and quite impressive.
So.
- Yeah.
- Love it.
- All right.
I'm a switch to extras.
- Yeah.
Nick, you got any extras?
Nick, you got any extra stuff you want to cover while you got your screen up?
Yeah, actually I do have a couple of extras.
I see you've got like a named tab group of extras, like this is next level.
I know, I know, I got to come prepared.
Alright, so the first extra I have is this web service called Terms of Service Divint Read.
And essentially it takes some of the Internet's most common, popular products and services
and gives you a summary of what their terms of service is.
Because, you know, I know some of you are like, "We don't need this. We all read the terms of service."
But in reality, we don't.
Yeah, right at the top it says I have read and agreed to the terms of service is the biggest lie on the web
We aim to fix that. That's so true
So it has all the terms of service for a bunch of services. So
GitHub and get lab
So some of them are not yet rated. But okay for a GitHub on global privacy. It's great B and
Let's say for Facebook
Facebook's awesome. I mean like the ones there
Maybe who's treasure day whether you have an account or not
Your identity is using ads that are shown to the others service can read your private messages Wow
Okay, I like the last one deleted content is not really deleted
Wait, is there another way you guys can think of I can think of anyone right now you could check
Put a go
- Oh, okay.
- This one that should come out good.
Oh, it's great, eh?
Look at that.
- Yeah.
- That's pretty good.
And I'm still doing my live with it,
kagi.com, do kagi, K-A-G-I.
See if that even shows up.
Nah, nah.
- Not yet.
- It's not even there yet.
- Open source.
- But the DuckDuckGo came out well.
- Yeah, yeah.
It's open source, so you can contribute to this
and grade existing ones or update ones
that are already on this website.
So that's pretty cool.
In the power of open source,
I think we could get a pretty good list
of summaries for Terms of Service,
which we know you really don't read most of the time.
I'm surprised to see Reddit to be like.
The Reddit is like you sign away moral rights.
Oh, that's funny.
- So I actually think this is great.
I wish that there, my, in open source,
like the open source world, we've sort of,
we could have, legitimately, we could have like hundreds
of different open source licenses and maybe there are,
but we kind of have a handful that most people use.
So as long as you sort of understand those few
and what the differences are, you're pretty good.
But commercial terms of service,
they're just, they're all unique.
And I really wish there was like just like three or four
that were most software.
Like you agree to this and we're like,
oh, it's a MIT except for commercial use thing
or whatever, something like that.
We're not gonna get there, but it'd be cool.
- Yeah, it would totally be cool.
All right, what's next?
This is great.
- All right, so then a couple of quick ones.
PIO Ohio is coming up.
So July 30th is PIO Ohio.
The CSP is already closed,
but you can still register for it.
And, you know, come down to PIO.
It's a one day event and it's down in Columbus.
the convention center is pretty good.
So yeah, if you check out that.
And then also my company, Trimble,
is having their annual insights.
So this is a conference for all the players
in the transportation space.
So this is where we're gonna be talking about
the cool things that Trimble has been doing,
some of the cool things the people
in the transportation sector is doing.
We're inviting our competitors,
we're inviting our customers.
It's one big transportation event.
So if you guys are, if any of you out there are interested,
you should come in and register.
- Yeah, nice.
- Yeah.
- And an excuse to go to Florida.
- Yes, an excuse to go to Florida.
Then lastly, you guys should check out,
hey, we should check out the Stack Overflow
to develop a survey.
So I know I've had-
- Is that due to the survey or is that the results?
- The results.
- Oh, nice.
Okay.
Yeah.
- Yeah.
- Fantastic.
All right.
Yeah, everyone should check that out.
That's a good one.
- All right.
- Brian, how about you?
Got some extras?
- I do not.
How about you?
- All right.
Well then I just got it.
I don't have much this time.
So surprise, surprise.
Just the Kaggy stuff.
I'm totally loving it.
I got a lot to tell people about it, but yeah.
It's pretty good stuff these days.
I'm loving it.
But still loving DuckDuckGo as well.
All right, but here's my one extra.
OpenSSF, which honestly,
that's the Open Source Security Foundation,
which I got to learn more
about where the money comes from and whatnot.
Don't know all the details,
but shout out to them because they
funded Python and Eclipse Foundation.
So not really caring too much about Eclipse,
but the Python one, they funded--
what's the short version of it?
So they funded-- committed $400,000 to the PSF
in order to create a new role.
So we've had the developer in residence with ukasz Langa.
And now we have a new role which will provide security
expertise for Python and the Python package index via PyPI
and the rest of the Python ecosystem,
as well as funding a security audit.
And that comes to us from the Python Weekly Newsletter.
That's pretty amazing, right?
- Yeah, that's pretty cool.
- Yeah, so that's a big deal.
Anyway, that's my only real extra is that one,
but, you know, Waygo OpenSSF, that's great.
All right, we ready for a joke?
I think we've got two jokes, don't we?
- Yeah.
- All right, I'll go first since my screen's up.
So this one is all about,
it's got a Scooby-Doo theme here.
So if you've never watched the Scooby-Doo cartoons
and I guess maybe this won't really relate,
but they always sort of unmask what's supposed to be
like a ghost or a haunted thing.
and it almost, it never is, right?
So here's one of the characters.
Brian, do you know the name or Nick,
do you know the name of this guy?
Anyway, the blonde.
- Put me on the spot.
- I know I, what's that?
No, I don't know.
Anyway, there's a captured ghost, clearly not real.
And it says serverless computing.
Let's see who you really are.
And they pull the mask off and it's just a servers.
- Let's see who you really are.
Nope, you're not serverless, you're just a server.
Great, all right.
- Anyway, that was from Virginia, you know, with AWS.
- Yeah, exactly.
You came out of AWS East One, didn't you?
- Yeah.
- Once.
All right, Nick, how about yours?
Got some ways to stay healthy here?
Yeah, ways to stay healthy and keep away from COVID.
So, Michael, do you wanna do the dialogue with me?
- Yeah, sure.
I'll be the woman.
- All right, all right.
All right, so I did a survey to find out
the rate of COVID-19 infections among DevOps specialists.
- Oh, yeah?
- Yeah, and I found that DevOps are three times
less likely to catch it than the regular population.
Weird, right?
- Not really.
- What? Why not?
- Well, if everyone stayed home building K8 as stacks,
Kubernetes stacks in their home lab,
the numbers would drop pretty fast.
- And then there's like this news article
from the Daily Coder that says,
"COVID-19/Omicron, Kubernetes-based isolation very effective."
(both laughing)
- I love it.
It's honestly probably true.
I started learning about, I started fooling around with Docker, like multi-stage Docker
containers for one of my apps.
And I spent hours on that.
I didn't leave my house.
I spent hours on that.
So definitely.
Yeah, I've been there.
I've been there for sure.
Yeah.
I mean, you know, I'm not a big fan of the Docker.
I don't know.
I don't know how to use it.
I mean, we could have like completely no COVID in the country and there'd still be
Some software people are like now I'd rather not go outside
Exactly I
Like this new life. Yeah, I'm good
Yeah, actually I said that when they said like no the quarantine. I'm good
Yeah, I got a kick of it and then I were fine
- Exactly, I do actually have data within too, so I'm good.
(laughing)
- Well, speaking of fine, it has been very fine
to have you on the show, Nick.
Thanks for coming back.
- Yeah, thanks a lot.
- Yeah, it was fun.
- And you too as well, Brian.
Great to have you here.
Thanks, thanks everyone.
- Bye. - Bye.